Checking extensions and mine types, as we did during initial checks is important, but unfortunately
it's not enough to fend off all malicious files.
For example, a file that looks like an image and maybe even displays some image when opened can contain
some virus data inside.
For example, a file with Jeopardy extension would contain the shell code or HTML or JavaScript inside.
We talked earlier about content sniffing, which some browsers used to perform.
If such sniffing would take place and keep it, file could be run completely non jpeg called that it
has inside in case of JPEG putting malicious code inside may not be that easy, but in case of as big
for example, which is an image but also an example text file, it's much easier.
So in case of images, run them through image generation methods or a library to first ensure you are
really dealing with an image and second to strip any non image data out of it.
In BHP there is a graphics drawer library which provide functions that can process images in a very
easy way.
In this code, we first get the mime type with file info module.
Just like we did earlier.
Then according to the main type, we need to use different methods of library to store the image in
memory.
Image create from JPEG.
Image Create from GIF or image create from PNG.
Then we read the original images dimensions and create a new image in memory of the same size.
Finally we copy the original image to our new image with image, copy, reassembled function.
And then again, according to the main type, we save it either as JPEG, GIF or PNG.
You can use some other library if you want, but please be aware that the popular image magic library
has some security vulnerabilities.
Read about them before you start using it to process user uploaded files.
The example exploit that song on this site is this and as we do file to run the shell comment.
Image Files is a type of uploaded files that pretty often need to be then publicly accessible.
That's why for bitmap images like JPEG, it's a good idea to do the processing I just mentioned because
it will fend off pretty much all attack attempts.
But there are other types of files which can be uploaded and do not have to or sometimes even must not
be available to the public after upload.
Online application forms, for example, may feature an input field where people are expected to upload
some documents like signs, scans, CVS, etc. And such documents can come in more file formats, PDF,
Word, or even Excel.
In case of such files, it would be very complicated to process them like we did with images.
Although there are libraries that read and write for example, PDF or open exam formats.
To protect yourself from attack items in such files, I'd recommend you to either save them on a separate
static server, ideally outside of Webroot or in a rate only directory so that they will be accessible
to the public.
Never run them on the server.
Download these files to your computer and verify them with your antivirus software before opening.
This will work if the uploaded files are to be processed manually and there will be not too many uploads
when manual verification and offline processing is not an option.
Use an antivirus API to automatically process all uploaded files.
It will typically be a command line tool installed on your server, which would call with an exec or
show exec function in P2P a tool installed on your server that you would call with an API or an external
tool to which you would send files for scanning with some API or with code of the request, for example.
The actual implementation is outside of the scope of this course.